1. It must display a green web page on success. Click on the App tab at the top of your terminal 
to view your application. It is currently failed. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.
Stick to the given architecture. Use the same names and port numbers as given in the below architecture 
diagram. Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.


kubectl describe pod webapp-mysql-78fd9544f6-qv4pq -n alpha
kubectl describe svc web-service -n alpha
kubectl describe pod mysql -n alpha
kubectl describe svc mysql -n alpha

kubectl get pod webapp-mysql-78fd9544f6-qv4pq -n alpha -o yaml > webapp.yaml
kubectl get svc web-service -n alpha -o yaml > webapp-svc.yaml
kubectl get pod mysql -n alpha -o yaml > mysql.yaml


kubectl get svc mysql  -n alpha -o yaml > mysql-svc.yaml
kubectl delete svc mysql -n alpha
change serice name to mysql-sevice
kubectl apply -f mysql-svc.yaml 

---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: mysql-service
  namespace: alpha
spec:
    ports:
    - port: 3306
      targetPort: 3306
    selector:
      name: mysql

2. Troubleshooting Test 2: The same 2 tier application is deployed in the beta namespace. 
It must display a green web page on success. Click on the App tab at the top of your terminal 
to view your application. It is currently failed. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.
Stick to the given architecture. Use the same names and port numbers as given in the below architecture 
diagram. Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.

kubectl describe pod webapp-mysql-78fd9544f6-wttv6 -n beta
kubectl describe svc web-service -n beta
kubectl describe pod mysql -n beta
kubectl describe svc mysql-service -n beta

kubectl get svc mysql-service  -n beta -o yaml > mysql-svc.yaml
change targetport to 3306
kubectl apply -f mysql-svc.yaml 

3. Troubleshooting Test 3: The same 2 tier application is deployed in the gamma namespace. 
It must display a green web page on success. Click on the App tab at the top of your terminal to view your application. It is currently failed or unresponsive. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.
Stick to the given architecture. Use the same names and port numbers as given in the below architecture diagram. Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.

kubectl get pod webapp-mysql-78fd9544f6-qv4pq -n gamma -o yaml > webapp.yaml
kubectl get svc web-service -n gamma -o yaml > webapp-svc.yaml
kubectl get pod mysql -n alpha -o gamma > mysql.yaml
kubectl get svc mysql-service -n gamma -o yaml > mysql-svc.yaml

kubectl get svc mysql-service -n gamma -o yaml > gamma-mysql-svc.yaml
change selector to mysql
kubectl apply -f gamma-mysql-svc.yaml

4. Troubleshooting Test 4: The same 2 tier application is deployed in the delta namespace. 
It must display a green web page on success. Click on the App tab at the top of your terminal to view 
your application. It is currently failed. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.
Stick to the given architecture. Use the same names and port numbers as given in the below architecture 
diagram. Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.


kubectl get pod webapp-mysql-b9c9f7fbd-nrj8s -n delta -o yaml > webapp.yaml
change db username name to root
kubectl delete pod webapp-mysql-b9c9f7fbd-nrj8s -n delta
kubectl apply -f delta-webapp.yaml 

5. Troubleshooting Test 5: The same 2 tier application is deployed in the epsilon namespace. 
It must display a green web page on success. Click on the App tab at the top of your terminal 
to view your application. It is currently failed. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.
Stick to the given architecture. Use the same names and port numbers as given 
in the below architecture diagram. Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.

kubectl get pod webapp-mysql-b9c9f7fbd-nrj8s -n epsilon -o yaml > epsilon-webapp.yaml
change db username name to root
kubectl delete pod webapp-mysql-b9c9f7fbd-zzwbq -n epsilon 
kubectl apply -f eps-webapp.yaml 

and change mysql password in the mysql pod
kubectl get pods -n epsilon -o yaml > epsilon-webapp.yaml
kubectl delete pod webapp-mysql-b9c9f7fbd-qfqt2 -n epsilon


6. Troubleshooting Test 6: The same 2 tier application is deployed in the zeta namespace. 
It must display a green web page on success. 
Click on the App tab at the top of your terminal to view your application. It is currently failed. 
Troubleshoot and fix the issue. Stick to the given architecture. 
Use the same names and port numbers as given in the below architecture diagram. 
Feel free to edit, delete or recreate objects as necessary.
/tmp/kubectl-edit-914939279.yaml

kubectl get svc web-service -n zeta -o yaml > web-service.yaml
change port 

kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=zeta
kubectl get pod  webapp-mysql-b9c9f7fbd-56kp5 -n zeta -o yaml > webapp.yaml
change username
kubectl replace --force webapp.yaml
