1. Identify the DNS solution implemented in this cluster.
kubectl get pods -n kube-system 
there is an pod "core-dns"

2. How many pods of the DNS server are deployed?
2 pods

3. What is the name of the service created for accessing CoreDNS?
kubectl get service -n kube-system 


4. What is the IP of the CoreDNS server that should be configured on PODs to resolve services?
kubectl describe service kube-dns -n kube-system 
IP: 172.20.0.10

5. Where is the configuration file located for configuring the CoreDNS service?
kubectl describe pod coredns-77d6fd4654-4j5ts -n kube-system 
    Args:
      -conf
      /etc/coredns/Corefile

6. How is the Corefile passed into the CoreDNS POD?
kubectl describe pod coredns-77d6fd4654-4j5ts -n kube-system 
config map object

7. What is the name of the ConfigMap object created for Corefile?
kubectl get pod coredns-77d6fd4654-4j5ts -n kube-system -o yaml
coredns

8. What is the root domain/zone configured for this kubernetes cluster?
kubectl get configmap -n kube-system 
kubectl get configmap -n kube-system 
answer: kubernetes cluster.local 

9. We have deployed a set of PODs and Services in the default and payroll namespaces. 
Inspect them and go to the next question.

10. We have deployed a set of PODs and Services in the default and payroll namespaces. 
Inspect them and go to the next question.
kubectl get pods -n default
kubectl get pods -n payroll

11. What name can be used to access the hr web server from the test Application?
You can execute a curl command on the test pod to test. Alternatively, the test Application also has a UI. 
Access it using the tab at the top of your terminal named test-app.
kubectl get svc
kubectl describe svc web-service 
web-service

12. Which of the names CANNOT be used to access the HR service from the test pod?
web-service.default.pod

13. Which of the below name can be used to access the payroll service from the test application?
kubectl get pods -n payroll 
kubectl get svc -n payroll 
web-service.payroll

14. Which of the below name CANNOT be used to access the payroll service from the test application?
web-service.payroll.svc.cluster

15. We just deployed a web server - webapp - that accesses a database mysql - server. 
However the web server is failing to connect to the database server. Troubleshoot and fix the issue.


They could be in different namespaces. First locate the applications. 
The web server interface can be seen by clicking the tab Web Server at the top of your terminal.
kubectl get all --all-namespaces

webapp is in default ns
mysql is in payroll ns


kubectl get svc -n payroll 
kubectl edit deployment webapp 
change mysql to mysql.payroll
      containers:
      - env:
        - name: DB_Host
          value: mysql.payroll


16. From the hr pod nslookup the mysql service and redirect the output to a file /root/CKA/nslookup.out
kubectl exec hr -- nslookup mysql.payroll
kubectl exec hr -- nslookup mysql.payroll > /root/CKA/nslookup.out
