1. We have deployed Ingress Controller, resources and applications. Explore the setup.

kubectl get nodes
kubectl get deploy
kubectl get all --all-namespaces

2. Which namespace is the INgress Controller deployerd in?
ingress-nginx

3. What is the name of the INgress Controller Deployment?
ingress-nginx-controller

4. Which namespace are the applications deployed in?
NAMESPACE       NAME                                                  DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
app-space       replicaset.apps/default-backend-5cd488d85c            1         1         1       46s
app-space       replicaset.apps/webapp-video-cb475db9c                1         1         1       46s
app-space       replicaset.apps/webapp-wear-6886df6554      

app-space

5. How many applications are deployed in the app-space namespace?
kubectl get deployments -n app-space

6. Which namespace is the Ingress Resource deployed in?
kubectl get ingress -A

7. What is the name of the Ingress Resource?
kubectl get ingress -A
ingress-wear-watch

8. What is the Host configured on the Ingress resource?
kubectl get ingress -A
All Hosts(*)

9. What backend is the /wear path on the Ingress configured with?
kubectl describe ingress ingress-wear-watch -n app-space
Host        Path  Backends
  ----        ----  --------
  *           
              /wear    wear-service:8080 (172.17.0.4:8080)
              /watch   video-service:8080 (172.17.0.5:8080)
Annotations:  nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /
              nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect: false


10. At what path is the video streaming application made available on the Ingress?
/watch

11. If the requirement does not match any of the configured paths in the Ingress, 
to which service are the requests forwarded?
kubectl describe ingress ingress-wear-watch -n app-space 

Name:             ingress-wear-watch
Labels:           <none>
Namespace:        app-space
Address:          172.20.200.67
Ingress Class:    <none>
Default backend:  <default>

answer: default

12. Now view the Ingress Service using the tab at the top of the terminal. Which page do you see?
Click on the tab named Ingress.
404

13. View the applications by appending /wear and /watch to the URL you opened in the previous step.
open link

14. View the applications by appending /wear and /watch to the URL you opened in the previous step.

15. You are requested to change the URLs at which the applications are made available.
Make the video application available at /stream.

kubectl describe ingress ingress-wear-watch -n app-space 
kubectl edit ingress ingress-wear-watch -n app-space 
change watch to stream

View the Video application using the /stream URL in your browser.
Click on the Ingress tab above your terminal, if its not open already, 
and append /stream to the URL in the browser.

16. A user is trying to view the /eat URL on the Ingress Service. Which page would he see?
If not open already, click on the Ingress tab above your terminal, and append /eat to the URL in the browser.
404

17. Due to increased demand, your business decides to take on a new venture. 
You acquired a food delivery company. Their applications have been migrated over to your cluster.

Inspect the new deployments in the app-space namespace.
kubectl get deploy -n app-space
kubectl get pods -n app-space

18. You are requested to add a new path to your ingress to make the food delivery application 
available to your customers.
Make the new application available at /eat.

kubectl get svc -n app-space 
kubectl edit ingress ingress-wear-watch -n app-space 
add 
      - backend:
          service:
            name: video-service
            port:
              number: 8080
        path: /stream
        pathType: Prefix

19. View the Food delivery application using the /eat URL in your browser.
Click on the Ingress tab above your terminal, if its not open already, and append /eat to the URL in the browser.

20. A new payment service has been introduced. Since it is critical, the new application is deployed in its own namespace.

Identify the namespace in which the new application is deployed.
kubectl get ns
kubectl get pods -A
kubectl get deploy -n critical-space 

21. What is the name of the deployment of the new application?
kubectl get deploy -n critical-space 
webapp-pay 

22. You are requested to make the new application available at /pay.


Identify and implement the best approach to making this application available 
on the ingress controller and test to make sure its working. Look into annotations: 
rewrite-target as well.

kubectl get svc -n critical-space 
kubectl create ingress
kubectl create ingress ingress-pay -n critical-space --rule="/pay=pay-service:8282"
kubectl get ingress -n critical-space 
kubectl describe ingress ingress-pay -n critical-space 

kubectl get pods -n critical-space 
kubectl logs webapp-pay-6888bbb889-g8l8q -n critical-space 

  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/rewrite-target: /

23. View the Payment application using the /pay URL in your browser.

Click on the Ingress tab above your terminal, if its not open already, 
and append /pay to the URL in the browser.




